INMIGRATION COURT 525 W. VAN BUREN, SUITE 500 CHICAGO, IL’ 60607 Respondent IN REMOVAL PROCEEDINGS In the Matter of case No. ORDER OF THE IMMIGRATION JUDGE mie sa a summary of the oral dectoton entered on (Wd 44 34, 20 1& This aenccondun fo°aolely far the covariance of Naa Proceedings should be apveaied of foupened, the arel becision wifi Tecoma fhe oftichan opinion tn°ene cose, (is vinisecpeuaentfveslersereg et ee or in the aitamacive ee = T 9) caspencent olepeicstisetG: sine eee Sesponiere/nrs ereares eeceyeatee ers siekenative ta C1 ceerossereteferece ee e cron posting crbend in the amount of $ with ah aléernate order of renoval £0 5 Regpondent'a application for: (¥] Asylum was (granted ( }denied( )withdrawn. {Y] Withholding of removal was { )granted ( )denied (>)withdrawn. { ] A Waiver under Section was ( )granted ( )denied ( )withdrawn. (J Cancellation of renovalunder section 240A(a) was (\"granted (~ }denied (withdrawn. Respondent's application for: { J Cance2lation under section 240A(b) (1) was ( ) granted ( ) denied ( ) withdrawn, If granted, it is ordered that the respondent be issued all appropriate documents necessary to give effect to this order. { ] Cancellation under section 240A(b) (2) was ( )granted ( denied ( )withdrawn. If granted it is ordered that the respondent be issued all appropriated documents necessary to give effect to this order. { J Adjustment of Status under Section was ( )granted ( )denied ()withdrawn, If granted it is ordered that the respondent be issued all appropriated documents necessary to give effect to this order. Ty} Respondent's application of (7) withholding of removal ( ) deferral of xemoval under Article III of the Convention Against Torture was ( ) granted ( ) denied (¥) withdrawn. } Respondent's status was rescinded under section 246. 1 Respondent is admitted to the United States as a until : 1 1 As a condition of admission, respondent is to post a § Bond. Respondent knowingly filed a frivolous asylum application after proper notice. [ } Respondent was advised of the limitation on discretionary relief for failure to appear as ordered in the Immigration Judge's oral decision. [1 Proceedings were terminated. (1 Other: : Date: Way 25, 2018 7 ¥ u j OFav : EETCABETHG. LANG | Immigration Judge NS Appeal:/Waived/Reserved Appeal Due B: \\o4 Wer. wet. 2 Derv. : IMMIGRATION COURT 525 W. VAN BUREN, “SUITE S00 CHICAGO, IL’ 60607 Respondent IN REMOVAL PROCEEDINGS In the Matter of Case No. ORDER OF THE IMMIGRATION JUDGE Thip-s-asummary of the. oxal decision entered on 24, JUNE Thifcaeopgastime ie bolely forthe Conventonce of tio SoeTbS “ie the proceedings shold be appealed of reopened, the oral decision will become the official opinion/in the case.’ * : r (1) The, respondent was ordered rethoved from the United States to inf pie, alternative to . {1 Reapordentis application for voluntary departure was denied and respondent was ordered renoved to. or in the alternative to. « { } Respondent's application for volugtary departure was granted until ‘upon posting a bond in the amount of § with an alternate order of renoval to . ae Respondent 's application for: Soo (J Asylun was ( Xigranted ( }denied( jwithdrawn. \" pf} Withholding of removal was ( “)granted (s )denied | (X]uithdravn, } A Waiver under Section was (granted (s*)denied (withdrawn. (1 Cancellation of renoval under ction 240A(a) was ( )granted ( )denied : (withdrawn. . Respondent's application for: i. : - { J Cancellation under sectidn 240A(b{(1) was ( ) granted ( )-denied () withdrawn. If granted, rit is ordered that the respondent be issued all appropriate documents rlécessary to give effect to this order, ( } Cancellation under section 240A(b) (2) was ( granted (. denied e ( Jwithdrawn. Tf granted it is ordered that the respondent be issued all appropriated documents necessary to give effect to this order [1] Adjustment of Status under Section was ( granted ( jdenied a ( )withdrawn, If granted it is ordered that the respondent be issued > all appropriated documents necessary to give effect to this order. ry Respondent's application of ( }f withholding of removal ( ) deferral of [removal under Article IIT of the Convention Against Torture was ( ) granted ( ) denied (X) withdrawn. : { ] Respondent's status was rescinded under section 246. { 1 Respondent is admitted to the United States as a until { 1] As a condition of admission, respondent is to post a § bond. {1 Respondent knowingly filed a frivolous asylum application after proper } novice. : [1 Respondent was advised of the limitation on discretionary relief for failure to appear as ordered in the Immigration Judge's oral decision. ~ [ ] Proceedings were terminated. ( ] Other Date: May 29, 2018 c Ce ang * ELIZABETH( 6. LANG CG . Immigration Judge ee sserved Appeal Due By: Ltn Jeffrey Middleworth, Esq. ‘Zuma Law, LLC . PO Box 7841 Gurnee, IL 60031 (847) 596-3030 Ext. 701 UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE EXECUTIVE OFFICE FOR IMMIGRATION REVIEW ‘OFFICE OF THE IMMIGRATION JUDGE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS In the Matter of: Honorable Judge Elizabeth Lang Next Individual Hearing: May 29, 2018 at 9:00 AM RESPONDENTS’ PRE-HEARING STATEMENT, WITNESS LIST, ANNOTATED ‘TABLE OF CONTENTS AND PROPOSED EXHIBITS UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE EXECUTIVE OFFICE FOR IMMIGRATION REVIEW IMMIGRATION COURT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS ) In the Matter of ) ) —=. __, ) ) In Removal Proceedings ) ) RESPONDENT’S PREHEARING STATEMENT NOW COMES, the Respondents, by and through their attomey Jeffrey Middlesworth of ZUMA LAW LLC, pursuant to 8 C.FR. § 1003.21(b) and state as follows: A. STATEMENT OF STIPULATED FACTS ‘Atthe time of submission of this prehearing statement, DHS has not stipulated to any facts, (Please refer to Respondents detailed version of facts in pre-hearing brief) B. LIST OF PR ED WITNESSES SERED, Respondent GENE will testify in Spanish as to the substantive nature of her asylum claim including past persecution, fear of future persecution, unwillingness to return to Honduras, membership in a particular social group, imputed political opinion, nexus, inability to relocate and lack of government protection in Honduras. She will also testify as to her class membership under Mendez Rojas v. Johnson. Specifically, her testimony will support her lack of notice of the one-year deadline by DHS officers. The estimated time for this witness is sixty (60) minutes. C. LIST OF EXHIBITS Respondents’ Annotated Index of Documents in Support of Application for Asylum Withholding of Removal and Protection Under the Convention Against Torture, is attached hereto, Submitted for the purpose of establishing Respondent's eligibility for Asylum, Withholding and CAT D. ESTIMATED TIME REQUIRED TO PRESENT THE CASE: 2 hours. Spanish interpreter needed. E, STA’ Fr )LVED ISSUES . Whether Respondents can demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution Whether Respondents can establish such fear of persecution is on account of their membership in a particular social group or their imputed political opinion . Whether the Honduran government is unable or unwilling to protect Respondents ‘Whether the Respondent falls into an exception to the one-year deadline. . Whether Respondents merit favorable discretion In the alternative, whether Respondents are entitled to Humanitarian Asylum In the alternative, whether Respondents meet the higher threshold of future harm to establish a claim for withholding of removal In the alternative, whether Respondents will be subject to torture if returned 10 Honduras MApAY Re = F. BIOMETRICS COMPLIANCE Biometrics are current, Respondents were fingerprinted on March 28, 2017 Respectfully submitted this _ day of May 9, 2018 Jeffrey Middlesworth (EOIR # SS657890) Zuma Law LLC PO Box 7841 Gurnee, IL 60031 UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE EXECUTIVE OFFICE FOR IMMIGRATION REVIEW OFFICE OF THE IMMIGRATION JUDGE, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS : In the Matter of: ) ) ) d Bene AED ) In Removal Proceedings > M ANNOTATED INDEX OF PROPOSED EXHIBITS IN SUPPORT OF RESPONDENTS’ ‘APPLICATIONS FOR ASYLUM, WITHHOLDING OF REMOVAL, AND PROTECTION UNDER THE CONVENTION AGAINST TORTURE, © Copy of ASC Notice Confirming Biometrics were actually taken ‘Tab Number Description of Tabs RESPONDENTS’ DECLARATIONS A Declaration of Respondent STZ in Support of 1-589 Application RESPONDENTS IDENTITY B Copy of Responden (ED Birth Certificate with Certified English Translation C Copy of Respondent SEED Passport Biometrics Page D Copy of Respondent TTS Birth Certificate with English Translation E Copy of Responder: TD passport CORROBORATING EVIDENCE IN SUPPORT OF ASYLUM CLAIM F Swom Declaration from 9 (Respondent estranged husband and father of her son) attesting to the murder of his 1-14 15-18 19-20 21-24 25-26 27-30 sister-in-law CATED by SNIND (with certified English Translation) Statement from aE grandmother) Los Chirizos (with Certified English Translation) Notarized Statement from Gagepdiaggmiaiagnia@l® (Acquaintance of RespondenSamyaBewNNNN) attesting touilmmag market, extortion by Los Chirizos and corruption by Honduran police (with Certified English Translation) Notarized Statement frorpi@unitnmmmipaGiagnioplonige:. (Brother-In-Law of Respondent giaayiaaiimsiaa®) attesting topiaammgs market and extortion bygamsaaitistas (with Certified English Translation) Additional Statement {romeSaaanwOPFRRWOwtinmmsiag (Respondent idmother) attesting to ongoing family feud (with Certified English Translation) Flyer related to death cfs ONSUGIGIND and asking for justice in her death Additional social media flyer on death oft>uninbeiieniaigaa Court document forgslanenGuNuNeNGmmeEs for charges on the murder of (Canemrenet Photograph of Respondent emaagunGismiimsiew® in her store Camiceria Canales ‘Supreme Court of Justice record of death for Respondentesaensyagraum (@2HH aunts husband Santos Abundio Matute ‘Supreme Court of Justice record of Death for seueaoeSOS@uan (Respondent@twamysamiieuiooma® grandfather) Death certificate {1 SARS (Responden teh (GROG s mother) Death certificate forvuemniitenannen@uieg: (Respondent smmguGiumdlis- (SPPzrandfather) Death certificate for SUmmnbimmaiephioianansiemmmps (Respondentsiorap (@rementeg@s husband) 31-35 36-40 41-45 54-58 59-61 62-64 65-67 68-70 N14 15-18 79-82 83-86 EXPERT DECLARATIONS IN SUPPORT OF ASYLUM APPLICATION v Ev: 91 Lcsw ae a Licensed Clinical Social Worker and Qualified Mental Healt der who met with RespondenteieunypRn@amiRiaBto in face- to-face interviews. This evaluation presents her findings, which as discussed below, includes a finding of Chronic Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). emeewenTINN in her report explains that as a result ofgisaORONAEDD persecution ¢fwmm has difficulty sleeping, struggles being social and is scared to talk to her family for their safety. @teeineRWOAM also explains that like many trauma survivors, dmaggg struggles talking about the trauma she went through. ‘When summarizing @tmmgis PTSD diagnosis and recommendations, pereM@explains “in order to recover from her trauma, peluaiB] needs to remain in a safe and non-threatening environment with a supportive social network that understands the trauma she has survived. Retuming to Honduras would thrust her back into a hostile environment with multiple triggers that would place her at an extremely high risk for further decompensation of severe psychological symptoms and would expose her to violence from 1a Ser=sownsiisings” Ww ion _of Hondut Rights Experte a Provided by the University of California Hastings College of Law's Center for Gender & Refugee Studies Dated; October 27, 2017 In relevant part (highlighted by attomey for Respondent) this declaration g0¢s into great detail on gang-based violence in Honduras. It discusses how most gang violence goes unreported. It also discusses how gangs control territory in Honduras. As to extortion it provides extortion. ..has reached epidemic proportions ...and “‘gangs perceive non-payment as an affront or a subversive political act intended to undermine their power.” X Declaration of Stuart L. Lustig, M.D., M.P.H., Expert on Trauma and Asylum Seekers Expert declaration submitted to the Center for Gender and Refugee Studies cn the psychological impact of prior trauma on trauma survivors’ abilities to subsequently disclose various aspects of that trauma, such as the harms 95-106 107-184 185-205 they have experienced in the past and the harms they fear experiencing in the future, in setting such as border screenings and credible fear interviews upon arrival to the United States. In fact, several factors can prevent the immediate recall, disclosure and cohesive description of traumatic events, ‘even when directly asked about those events. (GEER, M.D. MPH found “[s]ome victims can tolerate...conversations about their trauma to a limited extent, but most victims require significant psychotherapy to overcome their fear of activating these painful memories. Even with a trusted attorney, these memories take significant time to elicit and organize into a coherent narrative. Thus, many victims of trauma with symptoms of avoidance or dissociation...may be unable or unwilling to disclose to border agents the nature of the traumas they have suffered.” Furthermore, astemiamig provides “...{I]t is often extremely difficult for traumatized asylum seekers to trust others enough to share the painful details of their victimhood, particularly strangers who speak a strange language even for purposes of expressing their need and desire for protection from the violence..” COUNTRY CONDITION REPORTS ON GANG VIOLENCE IN HONDURAS AND LACK OF GOVERNMENT PROTECTION Y Highlighted Abstract of United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Guidance ‘Note on Refugee Claims Relating To Victims Of Organized Gangs. Full copy can be found at: hutp://www.refworld.org/docid/4bb2 1 fa02.html Z__ Highlighted Abstract of United Nations High Commissioner Eligibility Guidelines for Assessing the Intemational Protection Needs of Asylum-Seekers from Honduras. Full copy can be found at: hitp://www ref world org/docid/579767434.html AA Highlighted Abstract of Honduras 2018 Crime and Safety Report. Full copy can be found at hutps://www.osac.gov/pages/ContentReportDetails.aspx?cid=23798 BB Highlighted Abstract of InSight Crimes Gangs in Honduras. Full copy can be found at https://www.insightcrime.org/images/PDFs/2015/HondurasGangs.pdf_ 206-213 214-241 242-246 247-251 CC Highlighted Abstract of Jesuit Conference of the United States Considerations for Hondurans in the American Asylum Process: Relevant Law and Country of Origin Information. Full copy can be found at hhttps:/esuits.org/Assets/Publications/File/Hondurans_asylum_report_FINAL.pdf DD Highlighted Abstract of Congressional Research Service Honduran-U.S. Relations. Available at: http://ww.w.cedoh.org/Biblioteca_CEDOH/archivos/00418%20Congressional%20 Research%20Service%20Honduran- US%20Relations%20Peter%20) %20Meyer% 20July%202012.paf EE Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada Honduras: Areas of operation of Mara Salvatrucha (MS-13) and Mara 18 (MS-18also known as the 18\" Street gang) in Honduras; Available at: hup://www.refworld.org/docid/4f4f301c2.html FF Crime, Violence, and Community-Based Prevention in Honduras. Available at: http://documents. worldbank.org/curated/en/9304 1 146799698 1525/pdf/97642- REPLACEMENT-FILE-Honduras-Research-Report-Online.pdf GG Honduran Extortion Laws Article 222: Chapter II Extortion and Chantage; Article 335-A; and Article 335-B HH Dialogo News Article “Honduras Toughens Penalties for Extortion” I News Article: The Sun daily, Honduran gangs choke small businesses with “war tax” JJ Abstract of International Crisis Group: Mafia of the Poor: Gang Violence and Extortion in Central American. Available at: hutps://www.crisisgroup org/latin-america-caribbean/central-america/62-mafia- KK News Article: Captured alleged extortionist in the Villa Nueva Neighborhood of the Capital of Honduras. Article is on ees@heees LL News Article: By extortionist falls “El Chino” of “éssextiivietewas 252-257 258-262 263-269 20-272 273-282 283-286 287-289 290-297 298-300 301-303 MM News Article: They capture leader af Los Chirizos accused of terrorism NN News Article: This is how gangs and gangs operate in Honduran capital with interactive Map of Gang Territory including Los Chirizos. Available at: htps://www.thinglink.cony/scene/5577539966101094427buttonSource=viewLimits 00 Global Witness Report: What's Driving the Attacks? Corruption, A Lack of Consultation, and a Failure to Protect Activists https://www.globalwitness.org/.../Defenders Honduras whats_driving_attacks.pdf PP Online Article: Dynamics of Honduran Police Corruption Narrow Chance for Reform QQ Abstract of Human Rights Watch: “You Don’t Have Rights Here.” Available at: hups:/www hrw.org/reporl/2014/10/16/you-dont-have-rights-here/us-border- soreening-and-retums-central-americans-risk RR Abstract of Scholarly Journal Gangs, Violence, and Victims in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras Full copy available for purchase at http:/heinonline.org/HOl i uge?handle=hein, journals/sdint!12&¢ i d=&page= Respondent will bring full copy to individual hearing for inspection SS Abstract of Report of the Special Rar porteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons on mission to Honduras. Full copy available at: jiefweb.invfiles/resources/G1 pat TT Abstract of US Department of State 2015 Report on Human Rights Practices Honduras. Full copy available at: hutps://www state. gov/documents/organization/253235,pdf UU Freedom House Report on Honduras ‘VV Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada HND104993.E 304-306 307-311 312-316 317-324 325-328 329-333 334-340 341-343 344-348 349-352 AESOETOTS eweiatieette HovawetionlentilahichlelOSORBES, ED Immigration Court Chicago, Illinois Cextificate of Service 1___do hereby certify that I mailed or hand-delivered a true and correct copy of the attached Respondent's Respondents’ Pre-Hearing Statement, Witness List, Annotated Table of Contents and Proposed Exhibits in Support of Their Applications for Asylum, ‘Withholding of Removal, and Protection Under the Convention Against Torture and attached documents to: Please check one: Executive Office for Immigration Review Immigration Court 525 W. Van Buren, Suite 500 Chicago, IL 60605 Immigration and Customs Enforcement Office of the Chief Counsel 525 W. Van Buren, Suite 701 Chicago, IL 60603 Other Please check one: _—— The document(s) were mailed on : (date) __— The document(s) were hand-delivered on. (date) (your signature) (Gate) (847) 596-3030 Ext. 701 UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE EXECUTIVE OFFICE FOR IMMIGRATION REVIEW OFFICE OF THE IMMIGRATION JUDGE, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS In the Matter of: ) ) nee NE snneumnneoereepyead nae 5 ee ) In Removal Proceedings ) =) Honorablegienig ooo 000amap Next Individual Hearing: May 29, 2018 at 9:00 AM RESPONDENTS’ BRIEF IN SUPPORT OF APPLICATIONS FOR ASYLUM, WITHHOLDING OF REMOVAL AND THE CONVENTION AGAINST TORTURE Table of Contents 1. Introduction and Summary. A. Factual Background... IL, Legal Standards for Asylum, Withholding and CAT... IL Argument... A. Asylum i. Asylum based on membership in the Particular Social group “Honduran Business owners who have refused to pay war res 1, Suffered Past Persecution. 2. Well Founded Fear of Future Persecution... 16-17 3. Particular Social Group “Honduran business owners who have refused to pay war tax” is a cognizable social group. 7-22 b. Particularity.. ¢. Social Distinction... 4, Nexus... 5. Alternative Social Group Formulations based on Gang’s Persecution... 7 6. Government Inability or Unwillingness to Protect....24-25 7. Internal relocation is unsafe and unreasonabl 5 ii, Respondents are entitled to Asylum Based on imputed anti-gang political opinion 1, Nexus... 26-29 iii, iv. v. vi B. Withholding of Removal C. Relief under the Convention Against Torture. IV. Conclusion.. Respondents are entitled to Asylum Based on membership in the Particular Social Group “Family members ofiSiastedaeieaiiie ‘Serranin7” 19-31 1, Well Founded Fear of Future Persecution. 2. Persecution on account of Particular Social Group... Respondents are entitled to Humanitarian Asylum.. Derivative Respondent independent claim for Asylum... Statutory Bars, One Year Deadline and Discretion.. UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE EXECUTIVE OFFICE FOR IMMIGRATION REVIEW OFFICE OF THE IMMIGRATION JUDGE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS In the Matter of TS (Mentinmniiinthet Reema —i*):C(‘é OTTO In Removal Proceedings RESPONDENTS’ BRIEF IN SUPPORT OF APPLICATION FOR ASYLUM, WITHHOLDING OF REMOVAL AND PROTECTION UNDER THE CONVENTION AGAINST TORTURE Respondents, qian oi Satomi by and through their attomey, Jeffrey Middlesworth of Zuma Law, LLC, respectfully submit this brief in support of their applications for Asylum under the Immigration and Nationality ‘Act (the “Act” or “INA”) §208(a), or in the altemative Withholding of Removal pursuant to §241(b)(3) of the Act, or in the alternative protection under the Convention Against Torture. 1. INTRODUCTION Respondenteiemagstemtonsing merits a grant of asylum as she has suffered past persecution in the form of harassment, death threats and attempted assassination by the ermtiiccmmpmpettionmmenemey. Furthermore, evidence submitted herewith demonstrates that ggg will suffer future physical harm and most likely death at the hands ofdemuihisiaw® if returned to Honduras. dsumiaiaaimgp’ unrelenting torment against Kessy, was on account oR@N9 membership in either of the following particular social 4 ‘groups “Honduran business owners who have refused to pay war tax” or “Hondurans taking concrete steps to oppose damm gang members and gang authority.” ‘Alternatively, the court may conclude that Kessy was persecuted based on her imputed anti-gang political opinion. In addition, Respondent, Mamaqutemtiaaiiogg, also qualifies for asylum due to the well-founded fear of future persecution of possible physical harm or death based upon an ongoing interfamily feud. Her uncle's family is systematically attempting to eliminate all of the family members of Hmpiegt® ConenbiaieeOOP This well- founded fear of persecution is on account ofeiémasggs membership in the particular social group “family members of (amaniamasaiansiiiaaSOoOe®.” Derivative Respondentsoaias@waisfalso independently qualifies for asylum or withholding of removal due to the realistic fear of future persecution from Los Chirizos on account of his membership in the particular social group “family members of =e Los Chirizos Summary: ‘After moving to Tegucigalpa and opening a small mini mart in 2014qidamgy began being targeted by the Los Chirizos gang for “war tax.” AC first, may resisted paying the ‘gang by ignoring their calls and changing her number, telling “collectors” that they had the wrong address and making excuses for not paying. After receiving death threats, éexepsuccumbed to the gang's will and started paying. Eventually, the payments proved to be too much for the business to handle and Simm could no longer pay. When she started falling behind on her payments Los Chirizos began stalking her and threatening to Kill her. She was told that if she did not pay the gang what was owed, then she would be burned alive with her young son. ‘After a nearby business owner and his family were bumed alive by the gang, and Los Chirizos gang members showed up at dims home in the middle of the night threatening to kill her; €#@8@Phad no other choice but to abandon her market and flee to the United States. Despite abandoning her market, the gang sought revenge for Smalls defiance and began looking for her. More than a year after her arrival in the United States, Los Chirizos murdered NRgMs sister-in-law nearly 40 miles away from where emma business was located. The sister-in-law was murdered because the gang mistakenly believed that the sister-in-law wassiumg in hiding. In Honduras, entire communities are dominated by one particular gang and subject to the gang's control. Gangs rule their territory as the surrogate government. As para state actors/local government, gang's levy taxes on individuals in the territory, control entry and exits to certain neighborhoods and “police” the locality. Gangs do this with almost complete impunity and non-action by the state. In some cases. this is done even with police acknowledgment and assistance. To dare to defy the gang through refusal to comply with specific demands, is rare and sharply noted. both by Honduran society and by the Gang’s themselves. Los Chirizos follows this modus operandi. As the “largest homemade gang” in Honduras. Los Chirizos maintains control over the inhabitants of the territories they dominate by terrorizing the local population into submission. According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (“UNHCR). Los Chirizos imposes a large range of rules over the population living within the territories they govern including the strict rule of silence, enforced curfews and payment of “war taxes’ from businesses They also control wo can enter and exit their territory through checkpoints. (Tab Y. Ps. 226. 228), They react aggressively to state aciors, killing police officers and their families who live in the zones under their control and are extremely violent against anyone who challenges their authority. (Jd.). ‘To not comply with any of the gang's demands is to defy the gang's control and their de fucto governing authority. Such defiance is seen as a “crime” by the gang which inust be responded to with swift violence. Persecution in this context transforms from the gang's original motivation to eam money, grow, reenuit and transforms into something at odds with the original motive—ie to punish by death for refusal to acquiesce 10 the gang's demands. In the case of Samm. the Los Chirizos’ motive in persecuting @By i no longer the desire to earn money from her but rather (o kill her for defiance and the challenging of their authority. mily Foud Summary ‘The record reflects that multiple family members of iy have been murdered by her great uncle's family and the persecutors will not stop until she and her whole family are dead. This feud began after both Qenge grandfather and her uncle's son were killed in a shootout between the two families. Since then the families have been killing one another and @ama@Bis a target 1. Facts of Case: is a Honduran citizen and national, born on December 31, 1981 in Juticalpa, Olancho, Honduras. (See; SiiaaiQgp at Tab B. Pg. 1 18) dfMagagés mother died during child bth whensommmp was just seven years old and her father abandoned her. (Respondent's Affidavit at Tab A, Pg. 2). After her mother’s death, Meemboi2s raised by her maternal grandmother @ostacimmageneommm (Ic) Family Feud: In November 1990, WhengSiiillip was nine years old her maternal grandfather A was murdered by his nephew, (id. at Pe. 3) qian pettiness is family were part of a local gang that was involved in strong arm robbery, stealing of cattle and petty offences. (Id.) Immediately after the murder, a gun fight occurred between Simmgge grandmother's family ond ¢QgINNURliy family. (Id.). During the gun battle @mmmiBy2s killed by one of SEB uncles (1c), SAA ace SATAY 2c his family declared war on QammMB mother and her family for his son's death. (Id). BBM srondmother decided to sell her property and move her family to another town for their safety. (Jd. at Pg. 4) ‘Around 1992, two years after the murder ofiggammis grandfather and the death of ana Drother SNEED attempted to assassinate one of (7 uncles QQUNMEEEEgN during a family wedding, (/d). A shootout occurred ander a. husband eebemtteggiaman was murdered byChmmngsgGiB s brother SamigeanaaR on his way home from work. (Id.). illed, (Jd). This only escalated the family feud and in 1993s aunt's For a while, the violence stopped andagaiqyp's family thought the situation was over. (Id). However, in 1995, @@RRB®r.'s family were able to locate @mis grandmother's family and attacked. (Id.). This timeseuneseemig® gunned down eh Sy grandmother's youngest son, KaemplamawtBas he left the family home, (Id.) & ‘note was left beside the body which stated “this isn’t over family.” (Id. at 5), A's family made it known throughout the town that they were planning to kill <7” (SMR and her entire family. (/d.). The war between QB grandmother's family and Arturo Sr has never stopped! and still greatly fears them finding her. (d.). ‘After Douglas's murder, QJM grandmother moved the family to Salama, Honduras. (/d.). Shortly thereafter, 49 grandmother sent her to live with her aunt. (Ud.). While living with her aunt, @ilijp was able to attend school and graduated with a degree in accounting, (Id). After graduation, she started a relationship with a man Goma arnt. (4). romp and emp had a son together named ATT on October 24%, 2012 and the couple marrizd. (/d.) Despite being an excellent fatheriump started becoming emotionally abusive towardselimamgand their relationship failed. (/d.). ‘After things did not workout with imam, dmmy decided to move to the city of ‘Tegucigalpa with her son to start a small business owning a mini mart. (Id. at 6). Te ‘Around October 2014, @#vmey opened her mini mart ‘Gmimminatiapaigs” in Colonia Reparto Por Bajo, Tegucigalpa, Honduras. (Id.). A few days after opening the markeMg@3SP began hearing from other business owners that it was only a matter of time before the local gang “Los Chirizos” would begin demanding “taxes” from her. (Id.). A few weeks latergiemay was contacted by Los Chirizos gang members via phone. (Id.). ‘They demanded that she start paying “taxes.” (Id.). They would send random people to Kessy's store asking for the rent, but Kessy would tell them that they had the wrong place. (Id.). She also changed her phone number. (Id.). Despite changing her number, the gang was somehow able to get her updated cell phone number. (Id.). She attempted to change her phone number several more times, but the gang would always call her within a few days on her new number. (Id). ‘Around November 2014, Los Chirizos was finished with Sam's defiance. (Id. at ‘D. She was told that a person would be stopping by to pick up the money and that if she did not comply they would kill her. (Id. Frightened for her and her son’s safety Sa) complied. (Jd). The gang charged her 1,500 lempiras a week. (Id.). This amount was neatly impossible for Silay to pay. (/d.). With the weekly payments of “war tax” to the ‘gang, 4) was unable to pay her bills, rent or pay back the money she had borrowed to start the business. (Id). By February 2015, she could no longer pay Los Chirizos and had exhausted all of her funds trying to keep the store stocked. (Id). EMMY could not pay Los Chirizos for the whole month of February 2015. (/d). “The first week of March 2015, the gang calledsaemsp and demanded payment of what she owed. (Id at 8). She told them that she could not pay because she did not have any money. (Jd). Los Chirizos told @immy they did not care and she had to weeks to pay or they were going to kill her and her son. (/d). Later that month, Los Chirizos called again ‘and told Aimmap that she had one week to pay what she owed or they were going to burn hher and her son alive. (Id), During this same time, Los Chirizos murdered another business owner and the business owner's family by burning them alive. (Id). <@qgmiyp was terrified and knew that she needed to leave as she could not pay. (Id). ‘The third week of March 2015, Los Chirizos members showed up at 4am home in the middle of the night and started banging on the door. (Id). They slid a small note under the door saying “pay or die.” (Jd). She could hear them saying “‘you are going 10 to die... bumed along with your son.” (/d). The next day, @@mmg fled. (Id). She did not tell anyone or grab any of the merchandise in the store (Id). She abandoned everything. (Id). (@reeeand her son were able to stay with a friend named (ssituiiemsmmfa in hiding in Tocoa Colon, Honduras. (Id. at 9).¢siemy stayed there for about two months until the friend told her that she could not keep her there because Los Chirizos owned the area and the friend was scared for her own safety. (Id.)elmany could not go to the police because she knew they were complicit or at a minimum acquiesced to the extortion and violence of the Los Chirizos in the area. (/d.)Q@Npalso did not want to go to her family because she did not want to put them in danger. (Id.). She knew coming to the United States was the only safe option. (Id). ‘The joumey to the United States was grueling. At times she thought she and her son may not survive. (Id.). When she got to the border she was apprehensive of telling border patrol of her story, because she was afraid it would get back to Los Chirizos and that they would find her. (/d.). She eventually opened up to the authorities after they explained to her that their conversation was confidential and Los Chirizos would not find cout about it. (1d). After arriving to the United Statessesamm and her son were put into a family detention facility in Dilly, Texas. (See; NTA). At the facility other detainees told her that when she got out she needed to file for asylum because the application had a one-year deadline from the time of release. (Jd. at 10). She was never told of the one-year deadline by any government officials or DHS officers. (Id.). It was always her understanding that the one-year deadline ran from the time of release from the detention facility. (/d.) She id not find out that the deadline ran from the time of entry until subsequently retaining u counsel. (/d.). By that time, the one-yea: deadline had passed by a few weeks. (Id). She filed her asylum application shortly thereafter. (See; Asylum Application). On October, 12, 2016, over a year after fleeing, timmy found out that Los Chirizos had paid a man to go to her husband SSiamaalg’s house and murder her sister-in-law SEED, 70 lived with him, believing that she was (MMM (Id. at 10-11). When identifying the shooter Q5RERBMNIBes (no relation 10 GEMEEpto the police, Game asked @immi® why he had killed Ramiekp (/d.at_11). @98% said because she did not do ‘what she was told and pay the money. (/.) eidamay askedghtariaawhy the Los Chirizos did not ask him for money before killingeitamsei. (Ic jghlasiag responded “it's not about the money anymore.” (/d.). @##8% then threatencdlimsiag stating he was now dead too for identifying him. ([d.).qedme subsequently went into hiding, Id I. LEGAL STANDARDS A. — Standard for a Grant of Asylum § 1101(a)(42) ‘An asylum applicant bears the burden of proof and persuasion of showing that he or she is a refugee within the meaning of section 101(a)(42)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, and that he or she is eligible for asylum under Section 208(a) of the act. 8 U.S.C. § 101(a)(42)(A). The definition of a \"refugee\" as defined in INA § 101(a)(42)(A) is: “[A}ny person who is outside any country of such person's nationality or, in the case of a person having no nationality, is outside any country in which such person last habitually resided, and who is unable or unwilling to return to, and is, unable or unwilling to avail himself or herself of the protection of that country because of persecution or a well- founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, 12 nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion.” ‘Therefore, to qualify for a grant of asylum, an applicant must demonstrate that they have a well-founded fear of persecution on account of their race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion. (See 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(42), Matter of E-P-, 21 1&N Dec. 860, 860 (BIA 1997). The asylum applicant bears the burden of providing evidence, either direct or circumstantial, from which it is reasonable to conclude that her persecutor harmed her at least in part because of a protected ground. INS v, Elias-Zacarias, 502 U.S. 478, 482 (1992). Additionally, the test for refugee status includes both a subjective component and an objective component: the subjective componeat is satisfied ifthe fear is well-founded the objective component requires a showing by credible, direct, and specific evidence in the record that persecution is a reasonable possibility. Demirovski v. LN.S.,39 F.3d 177 (7th Cir. 1994); Kotasz v. ILN.S.,31 F.3d 847 (9th Cir. 1994). This standard is met if a reasonable person in the applicant's situation would fear persecution. INS v. Cardoza-Fonseca, 480 U.S. 421 «g87). B. Standard for a Grant of Withholding of Removal ‘An applicant seeking withholding of removal is eligible if he can demonstrate a clear probability of persecution on account of his race, religion, nationality, membership ina particular social group, or political opinion. INS v. Stevic, 467 U.S. 407, 413 (1984). Relief under withholding of removal is not discretionary, and if an alien meets the statutory criteria under 8 C.F.R. §1208.16(b) the Attorney General must withhold removal. INS v. Aguirre-Aguirre, 526 U.S. 415 (1999). Additionally, a request for withholding of removal is country specific, and is not subject to the one-year filing 1B deadline upon arrival like applications for asylum. Al-Bareh v. Chertoff, $52 F-Supp.24 794 (N.D. Ill. 2008). C. Eligibility for Convention Against Torture Relief In order to show prima facie eligibility for Torture Convention relief, an applicant must show that it is more likely than not that he or she would be tortured if removed to the proposed country of removal. 8 C.F.R. § 208.16(c)(2). The pain or suffering must be inflicted by or at the instigation or with the consent or acquiescence of a public official or person acting in an official capacity ancl while the person is in the offender's custody or physical control. 8 C.F.R. § 208.18(a)(1} and (6). Unlike asylum and withholding of removal under the Act, an applicant for Torture Convention relief need not prove a nexus to a statutory protected ground. An applicant need only show he would be subjected to torture with the consent or acquiescence of a public official or person acting in an official capacity in order to qualify for relief. 1. ARGUMENT ‘The testimony and evidence submitted in this case establishes that igmis eligible for relief via asylum; withholding of removal and the convention against torture. Each ground for relief is considered in greater detail as follows. A. Asylum i, 4M is Eligible for Asylum due to a Well-Founded Fear of Persecution from Los Chirizos, on account of her membership in the particular social group “Honduran business owners who have refused to pay war tax” Qe is eligible for and should be granted asylum due to her past persecution and well-founded fear of future persecution perpetrated by Los Chirizos on account of her membership in a particular social group “Honduran business owners who have refused to 14 pay war tax.” The Honduran government is unable or unwilling to proteci@SN00N from Los Chirizos. The absence of any changed circumstances to rebut a presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution, coupled withiiap's inability to relocate within Honduras makes her eligible for a grant of Asylum. 1, @MgMBSuffered Past Persecution ‘The Board of Immigration Appeals (hereafter “BIA”) has defined “persecution” for the purposes of the Act as a “threat to the life or freedom of, or the infliction of suffering or harm upon, those who differ in a way that is regarded as offensive.” Matter of Acosta, 19 I8N Dec. 211, 222 (BIA 1985). In this case, SMB was subject to persistent extortion, stalking, harassment and threats of death from Los Chirizos. Los Chitizos also threatened to Kill@@amgp’s son by buming them both alive. The gang showed up at her house in the middle of the night and threatened to kill her. The gang has shown their perplexity to commit violence by burning to death a nearby business owner and the owner's family as well as mistakenly killing (@liaagss sister-in-law believing she waseilamlmp As a result of her persecution, iy continues to have deep emotional scars. According (ASIN LCSW aléamay still exhibits signs and symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder as a result of the gang's persecution. (Tab V, Pgs. 95-106). ‘The 7th Circuit has found that threats of grave harm or imminent death can tise to the level of persecution, even standing alone. WV. L. A. v Holder, 744 F. 3d 425, 431 (7th Cir, 2004)(citing Stanojkova v, Holder, 645 F.3d 943, 948 (7th Cir-2011); Bathula v. Holder, 723 F.3d 889, 900 (7th Cir. 2013); Boykov v. INS, 109 F.3d 413, 416 (7th Cir. 1997). Courts of Appeals decisions from other jurisdictions have also found that 15 economic extortion can constitute persecution when accompanied by threats of violence or severe harm. See; e.g. Ayala v. Sessions,855 F.3d 1012, 1021 (9th Cir. 2017). In determining whether the actions taken against an individual constitute persecution, the courts should evaluate them “cumulatively,” and determine whether the combination of those actions rises to the level of persecution. See; Ahmed v. Keisler, 504 F.3d 1194 (9\" Cir. 2007); Khol-yavskiy v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 555, 570-571 (7 Cir. 2008). Here, both individually and cumulatively, the extortion, persistent harassment and ‘numerous death threats amount to the level of persecution necessary under INA § 101(8(42)(A). 2. Kessy Possesses a Well-Founded Fear of Future Persecution (Semap demonstrated past persecution on account of a protected ground. As such, she is entitled to a presumption of a well-founded fear of future persecution. See 8 CER. §1208,13(0)(1). The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) bears the burden of rebutting this presumption by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that there has been a fundamental change in circumstances in Honduras whereindly no longer has a well-founded fear of persecution or where aly could avoid persecution by relocating to another part of Honduras. /d. at §1208.13(b)(1)(ii). The record contains credible, direct, and specific evidence that future persecution is a reasonable possibility. See; Perkovic v. I.N.S., 33 F.3d 615 (6th Cir. 1994); Demirovski v. LN.S., 39 F.3d 177 (Mth Cir. 1994); Kotasz v. I.N.S., 31 F.3d 847 (9th Cir. 1994). Specifically, the record demonstrates that Los Chirizos is an extremely large and dominant gang in Honduras and has been actively secking to fin MNP kill her. The 16 recent country conditions documentation provided bysAMMM§B demonstrates the enormous power that gangs like Los Chirizos hold in Honduras as well as their inclination and ability to track down those who defied them. (Tabs W, Z & QQ, Pgs. 130-131, 224-225, 327). Country conditions also demonstrate that large scale goverment corruption and ineffectiveness allow these gangs to operate with almost complete impunity. fd. DHS cannot prove any relevant change in circumstances. DHS also cannot establish that J can be reasonably expected to internally relocate given @JU® lack of resources and Los Chirizos ability to track her down with ease within the country. Based on all the foregoing, @amgP possesses a well-founded fear of future persecution and is eligible for and deserving of asylum relief. 3. SBm@p is a member of a cognizable Particular Social Group “Honduran ‘business owners who have refused to pay war tax” ‘The phrase “membership in a particular social group” is not defined under the Act. Therefore, the BIA has established a three-part test!' for evaluating whether a group meets the definition of a particular social group. First, the group must be comprised of individuals who share a common, immutable characteristic that members cannot change, or a characteristic so fundamental to the member's identity or conscience that he or she should not be required to change it. Matter of Acosta, 19 I&N Dec. at 233-34. Second, \"The Seventh Circuit does not find itself bound by the second and third requirements set forth by the BIA.! As such we do not believe that the Respondent must satisfy these conditions before this Court. However, we brief and argue these additional requirements in case this Court believes the op the BIA issued the decisions of M-E-V-G and W-G-R, the Seventh Circuit has published three deci that have discussed the particular social group definition. See; Sibanda v. Holder, 778 F.3d 616 (7* Cir. 2015); RA. v. Holder, 746 F.3d 807 (7 Cir. 2014) and NLA. v. Holder, 774 F.3d 425 (7 Cit. 2014. [None of these decisions have referenced M-E-V-G or W-G-R an all have reaffirmed the Acosta definition of particular social group as established in Cece. 7 the group must be defined by characteristics that provide a clear benchmark for determining who falls within the group. Matter of A-M-E- & J—U-, 24 I&N Dec. 69, 76 (BIA 2007); Matter of M-E-V-G-, 26 1&N Dec. 227, 239 (BIA 2014). Third, the group ‘must be recognizable and distinct in society. Id. at 240-241. ‘The analysis of whether a particular social group is cognizable demands a case-by case contextual analysis. Id, at 251. Accordingly, the BIA's holdings in Matter of S-E-G ‘and, 24 I&N Dec. 579 (BIA 2009) and Matter of E-A-G, 24 1 &N Dec. 591 (B.1.A. 2008) ‘are not meant to “be read as a blanket rejection of all factual scenarios involving gangs.” Matter of M-E-V-G, 26 I & N Dec. 227, 251 (BIA 2014). a, immutability Nationality has been found on several occasions by the U.S. Court of Appeals and the BIA to be an immutable characteristic that may define a social group. See, e.g., Cece v. Holder, 773 F.3d 662 (7\" Cir. 2013): Matter of Acosta, 19 1&N Dec. 211 (BIA 1985). ‘Shared past experiences can also be an immutable characteristic. Benitez Ramos v. Holder, 589 F 34 426, 430-31 (7 Cir. 2009). Here members of the group “Honduran business owners who have refused to pay war tax” are united by the innate characteristics of nationality and the shared past experience of having refused to pay extortion fees to gang members. b. Particularity With respect to particularity, the group must be defined by characteristics that provide a clear benchmark for determining who falls within the group. See; Matter of A- M-E & J-G-U-, 24 1&N Dec. at 76; Matter of M- G, 26 I&N Dec. at 239. Particularity requires proof that the social group is not amorphous and diffuse, but that it 18 is “sufficiently distinct” to be recognized “in the society in question, as a discrete class of persons.” Matter of S-E-G-, 24 1&N Dec. 579 (BIA 2008). ‘The particularity requirement asserted by the BIA in M-E-V-G and W-G-R is the ‘same definition that existed in 2009 when the Seventh Circuit held that “tattooed, former Salvador gang members” were a particular social group, Benitez-Ramos, 548 F.3d at 431 and in 2013, when the en banc Seventh Circuit found that “young Albanian women who lived alone” were a particular social group. Cece v. Holder, 733 F.3d 662 at 67. In this case, the group is sufficiently particular, as the term has been interpreted by the Seventh Circuit. It is not defined by unspecific or amorphous terms, any more than the groups accepted in Benitez Ramos, 589 F.3d 426 and Cece v. Holder, 733 F.3 662. It also is possible to determine whether or not an individual belongs to the social group with sufficient particularity, The social group “Honduran business owners who have refused to pay war tax” has clear and precise boundaries. Only Honduran business owners who have refused to pay war taxes are members of this group. ‘Thus, there is a clear benchmark for determining who falls within this particular social group. C. Social Distinction To evaluate the issue of social distinction, the group must be “socially distinct within the society in question.” Matter of M-E-V-G-, 26 I&N Dec. at 237. To demonstrate social distinction, an applicant must provide evidence showing that society in general perceives, considers, or recognizes persons sharing the particular characteristic to be a group. Matter of W-G-R, 26 I&N Dec. 2017, 2015 (BIA 2014). The Board has described a range of evidence that can be considered when evaluating distinction, including high 19 rates of violence against group members, the enactment of laws designed to protect victims or punish perpetrators, and lack of effective enforcement of those laws. See; Matter of A-R-C-G, 26 1&N Dec. 388, 394 (BIA 2014). Distinction can also be shown by proof of differential or worse treatment of group members. See; ¢.g., M-E-V-G, 26 I& Dec. at 243. ‘The particular social group, “Honduran business owners who have refused to pay “war tax,” is socially distinct by the larger Honduran society. Country condition show that extortion by gangs against small businesses in the country of Honduras is an epidemic, “So extreme is extortion in Honduras that the Chamber of Commerce no longer publishes a registry of its members.” (Tab JJ, Pgs. 290-297). Not only does extortion have economic implications for the country, but it also leads to massive amounts of violence as people who don’t pay must die. (Labs Y, CC and IN). Central to gang mentality is the notion of respect and response to perceived acts of disrespect. Refusals to succumb to a gang's demands and/or any action that challenges the gang’s authority such as failing to pay “war tax” triggers a violent or punitive response. (Tab Y & Z, Pg. 210- 211, 228), To defy the gang by failing to pay war taxes is also sharply noted by Honduran society. (Tab JJ, Pg. 297). To combat its detrimental impact, Honduras has recently enacted laws to combat extortion. (See; Tab GG-HH, Pgs. 273-286). However, such laws and national anti- extortion policing efforts? have not made an effective impact in the overall violence ? To combat extortion and the accompanying violence, the Honduran government created a special National Anti-Extortion Task Force in 2013, comprising of vetted personnel from the Public Ministry, the National Police, the Armed Forces. and the National Office of Investigations and Intelligence. (ab FE, Pg. 272). However, these efforts have also done ‘and gangs extort with ‘almost complete immunity. 20 arising from gang extortion in Honduras and fail to provide sufficient protections against victims of extortion such as business owners. (See; Tab W, Y, BB, CC, Pgs. 131, 210. 249, 255), ‘The country conditions also objectively demonstrate that business owners are “preferred victims” of the gangs for extortion? and that extraordinarily high rates of violence are committed against those who have refused to pay “war tax” to gang members. According to Dr. Ubaldo Herrera Coello: “Gangs ... will kill residence who refuse to pay [taxes], seeking to make an example of those who resist. Those who refuse to pay have no option but to leave their homes, fearing for their lives.\". (Tab W. Pg. 131) ‘The UNHCR Eligibility Guidelines for Assessing the International Protection Needs of Asylum-Seekers from Honduras, found: “The population of Honduras reportedly pays an estimated US$200 tillion per year in extortion money, which is often called a ‘war tax’ C‘impuesto de guerra’) by the gangs. Those who do not pay are reportedly ‘murdered or see their businesses burned down as a reprisal (Tab Z, Pa. 222). ‘The Report of the Special Rapporteur on the Human Rights of intemally displaced persons on his Mission to Honduras, provides: “Extortion has reached epidemic proportions in many localities, in what is referred to by the gangs as a “war tax” imposed on small-business owners.... In some cases, multiple demands for payment come from different gangs. Marketplaces in Tegucigalpa have been affected, as store ‘owners have left to avoid the threats and extortion of the gangs. For many small businesses around the country, payment to the gangs has become the only way to continue to operate. Non-payment often results in death, as the gangs seek to make an example of any who defy them.” (Tab SS, Pg. 3 See; Tapiero De Orejuela v. Gonzales, 423 F.3d 666, 675 (7th Cit. 2005) where the 7* Circuit found that “educated, landowning class of catlemen targeted by the FARC” to be a cognizable social grouping sharply noting in analysis thatthe class was not defined by wealth but rather that the “cttleman are among the guerrillas ‘prefered victims’.\" 2 ‘The unilateral observations in governmental and humanitarian reports as well as ineffective laws to protect business owners from extortion show that “Honduran business ‘owners who have refused to pay war tax” are a socially distinct group within Honduran society. 4. ANexus Exists Between Sammy Persecution and a Qualifying Ground for Asylum ‘The statutory phrase “on account of” requires an applicant to demonstrate a nexus between the persecution and the protected ground asserted. See; Elias-Zacarias, 502 U.S. at 483-84. While the protected ground does not have to be the sole reason the abuser persecuted the applicant, it must be “at least one central reason” for the persecution. Shakh v. Holder, 702 F.34 897, 902 (7 Cir. 2012). Rima is cligible for asylum because she possesses a nexus to one of the ‘enumerated grounds of persecution. Specifically, one central reason why @imgy suffered persecution from Los Chirizos was on account of her membership in the particular social ‘group “Honduran business owners who have refused to pay war tax.” ‘An integral part of why Los Chirizos targeted @immy hinges on the gangs need to eliminate those who defy the control over their territory. Remarks made by Los Chirizos {BEM curing the time of the abuse, and the attempted murder of QIN by the gang more than a year after her business closing, provides direct and circumstantial evidence of this nexus. Although the original motive of the gang may have been to make a profit, once imp openly defied the gang by not paying, the motive switched to one at odds with the original motive, in that now they had to kill @§MNB as a result of her defiance instead of making money from her. Tapiero De Orejuela v. Gonzales, 423 F. 3d 666 (7th Cir. 2005) is illustrative of this motive shifting ideology and instructive to the case at bar. In Tapiero De Orejuela, the Court reversed the immigration judges finding that the motive of the FARC to extort wealthy cattleranchers in Colombia was that of financial gain. In its finding the Court of Appeals found “while we are sure that FARC would be happy to take the opportunity to rob any Colombian (or foreigner for that matter) of his money, it is those who can be identified and targeted as the wealthy landowners that are at continued risk once they have been approached and refused to cooperate with FARC’s demands.” id at 677. Here similar to the FARC in Tapiero De Orejula, Los Chitizos originally identified and targeted l@gmy because she was a small business owner and her continued risk is due to her past refusal to cooperate with the gang. This is specifically confirmed when Q@gumpsister-in-law was mistakenly murdered with the belief the sister-in-law was MB, First, the shooter specifically confirmed the motive of the gang was not financial but rather punitive for defiance when he toldQ§0MNs husband “it's not about the money anymore.” Second, at the time of the murder the gang knew that@jgggpno longer had her business and would not be able to pay. In addition, they did not ask the sister-in-law for money before shooting her. The shooting was not a demand for money but rather an assassination, Country condition evidence also presents strong circumstantial evidence of Los Chirizos motive. As the report of the Special Rapporteur on the Human Rights of Internally Displaced Persons on his mission to Honduras, explains “Extortion has reached epidemic proportions in many localities, in what is referred by the gangs as a “war tax” imposed on small-business owners... Non-payment often results in death, as the gangs seek to make an example of any who defy them.” (Tab SS, Pg. 339). 23 As the UNHCR Eligibility Guidclines for Assessing the International Protections Needs of Asylum-Seckers from Honduras, provides in its report specifically as to Los Chirizos: “The modus operandi of [Los Chirizos}... is reported to be similar to that of larger gang structures of Barrio 18 an MS... The Chirizas, in articular, are reportedly known for brutally torturing and killing those who defy them and leaving their bodies in public spaces.” (Tab ZZ, Pes. 226-228). Based on the evidence submitted, it is clear Los Chirizos continued persecution of @mmy is an account of her membership in the particular social group “Honduran business owners who have refused to pay war tax” and not for economic reasons. 5. Altemative Social Group Formulations Alternatively, if the court were to conclude that “Honduran business owners who have refused to pay war tax” is not a cognizable social group, the Court can find that, (ame was persecuted based on account of her membership in the particular social group 3s\" gang's authority.” + 6. Government Inability or Unwillingness to Protect When harm is inflicted by private actors, an applicant must show that the ““Hondurans who have took steps to oppose Los Chi government was “unwilling” to protect them. Afriyie v. Holder, 613 F:3d 924, 931 (9 Cir. 2010). Honduras is one of the most violent countries in the world. (Tab Z, Pe. 216-217). Most murders in the country are linked to organized crime. (/d.). The country condition reports indicate that the government of Honduras is unable or unwilling to protect Similar to the previously argued social grouping. “Hondurans who have took steps to oppose Los Chirizos's gang authority” is a cognizable social group.” \\t shares the immutable characteristics of nationality and pat experience je. a status that cannot be changed. Its defined with sufficient particularly s0 that i is possible o determine who falls within the group. They are #1) Hondurans (2) who have ‘opposed the Los Chirizos authority and (3) lack government protection. Last, forthe same reasons as listed. in te prior social group. the grouping is socially distinct within Honduran saciety. 24 individuals 1k¢MQMB from the gangs that want to harm them. Highlights of some country conditions evidence include: © The US Department of State OSAC report found “t]he government lacks resources to investigate and prosecute cases, and police often lack vhices/fel respond to calls for assistance. This means police may take hours to arrive at the scene of a violent crime or may not respond at all. As a result, criminals operate with a high degree of impunity. Pg. 246). This same report also found that “(t]he majority of serious crimes...are never solved. ‘© Dr. Ubaldo Herrera Coello found in his expert opinion that in Honduras “corruption and collusion between police and gangs is so widespread that presenting a complaint to the police often constitutes a death sentence.” (Tab W, Pg. 130) ‘An International Law Journal Report “Gangs Violence and Victims in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras reported that: “gang members refer to police officers as ‘uniformed gang members’ and that 77% of former gang members indicate that they have paid bribes to the police. There are also reports that accuse the police of extortion of the gangs. In this manner the police encourage gang members to extort more businesses and individuals. (Tab QO, Pg. 331). ‘* Freedom house in its 2015 report on Honduras found: “According to the government, approximately 80 percent of crimes committed in Honduras are never reported, and police investigate only 4 percent of reported crimes.” (Tab UU, pg. 247). ‘* According to UNHCR as to Honduras, “[T]he police reportedly do not have a permanent presence in all the urban zones where gangs operate and, where they are present, they are reportedly not unusually seen as offering a sufficient form of protection for residents who are threatened by the gangs...Moreover, the reported persistent failure of prosecutors to produce sufficient evidence to lay charges has ly resulted in many repeat offenders — including gang members—being repeatedly arrested for alleged crimes but never prosecuted, even in straightforward cases such as those involving extortion.” (Tab Z, Ps. 231). It is clear from the evidence submitted that the Honduran government would not protect @immp from Los Chirizos if retumed. 7. Relocation is Unreasonable For individuals persecuted by non-government actors, such as Qjqqggm relocation alternatives must be both safe and reasonable in light of all circumstances. 8 CER. § 1208.13(6(3); Matter of M-Z-M-R-, 26 I&N Dec. 28, 34-36 (BIA 2012). Intemal relocation for Kessy would neither be safe or reasonable. The record makes clear that BEBewould not be safe from Los Chirizos if she were to relocate in Honduras. Gangs like Los Chirizos have significant sophisticated communication structures to find people in hiding. (Tab Z, Pg. 227-228). As Central American gang expert Thomas Boerman puts it, “if you go to a new community everyone recognizes you as a stranger including the police officers and the gang members. It takes only a little bit of time for anyone looking for you to find you.” (Tab W, Pg.327). In addition, for $HERNPto have to relocate far away from where she was targeted from Los Chirizos would be unreasonable in light of the factors set forth in the controlling regulation and caselaw. See; 8 C.F.R. § 1208.13(b)(3); Knezevic v. Ashcroft, 367 F.3 1206, 1214 (9\" Cir. 2004)(finding it “exceptionally harsh” to expect asylum applicants to start their lives over in a new town with no property, family, or home). In sum, intemal relocation for Mewm in Honduras is neither possible nor reasonable. Nothing has changed to neutralizeséamamgs fear since her departure from Honduras. ii, Eligible for Asylum due to a Well-Founded Fear of Persecution of jrizos, on Account of her imputed political opinion Persecution based on political opinion may be established where the political opinion is “imputed” to the individual by his persecutors, regardless of whether the individual actually holds such opinions. Elias-Zacarias, 502 US. 478 (1992). Determining whether statements or actions are “political” requires a fact specific context specific analysis. Martinez-Buendia v. Holder, 616 F.34 711, 716 (7 Cir. 2010). As record evidence demonstrates, gangs such as Los Chirizos are in many parts of Honduras surrogate government, or actively competing with the state/local government for territorial control. A 2016 United Nations Human Rights Commissioner's report notes that Honduran gangs “pursue a strategy of exclusive control over their home territories 26 using violence to repel other gangs or challengers” including the government. (Tab Z, Pe. 224). As para-state/local government entities, gangs have been known to “install{] gates at the entrance to neighborhoods where they review the documents of passers-by to control who is to enter” or in their zones place restrictions over the population including “when people must be in their homes, where they can walk, even the color of their hair.” (Ud. Bes, 227-228). As de facto governing bodies. the gangs hold so much influence, that uring the 2013 national elections, presidential candidates reported that they had to ask permission from the gangs to carry out political activities or hold political gatherings in the neighborhoods controlled by the gangs and pay extortion money for the privilege. (le at 225) Los Chirizos the largest “home grown gang” in Honduras follows this structure and are the de facto government in their territory. Residents within their territory are subject to and must follow the gang’s local political rules or be subject to severe penalties. As set forth in UNHCR guidelines for Honduras on Los Chirizos: The modus operandi of [Los Chiricos) is similar to that of the larger gang structures of Barrio 18 an MS. In Particular, [Los Chirizas] are reported to ‘have a well-founded reputation jor extreme violence as the means for ‘maintaining control over the inhabitants of the territories that they dominate, terrorizing the local populations into submission. Like Bario 18 and MS. the Chirizos...reportedly impose a range of rules on the population living in these territories including the rule of silence, enforce by curfews and checkpoints where inhabitants must pay to enter or leave. These gangs are reported to ‘also have forced families out of their homes and sometimes taken over the ‘house, using them as command and torture centers....The Chirizos in articular are reportedly know for brutally torturing and killing thase who defy them and leaving bodies on display in public spaces... [Las Chirizos] are also reported to react aggressively to the security services, killing police “officers and their families who live in the zones under their control or forcing them to leave their homes, (Id, at 227.). In Honduras, to dare to defy a gang such as Los Chirizos through refusal to comply with specific demands, not pay taxes, or not comply to the rules imposed by the 27 ‘gangs is rare and sharply noted, both by Honduran society and by the gangs themselves. To engage in such activities is considered an act of political defiance to the gang's de facto governing authority and therefore can be the basis of an imputed political opinion.> ‘The 7 Circuit has found that persistent refusal in face of increasingly violent persecution can be an expression of an imputed political opinion. Martinez-Buendia v. Holder, 676 F.3d 711, 716 (7 Cit. 2010). In Martinez-Buendia, Ms. Martinez had refused demands given by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (commonly known as the \"FARC” to give them public credit for the humanitarian work she was doing in rural community's. At first, the FARC began their demands by making calls and leaving notes. However, as time passed, the FARC began threatening physical harm to Ms. Martinez, Buendia. They kidnapped her sister-in-law and at one point threatened Ms. Martinez Buendia by putting a gun to her head. In finding an anti-FARC imputed political opinion, the court put great deference in the fact that even after Ms. Martinez Buendia had suffered violent persecution, she continued to defy the FARC. Here, Simm similar to Ms. Martinez Buedia, repeatedly defied Los Chirizos by not paying her taxes and not following their agenda—despite facing increasingly violent persecution. ‘When they sent people to collect money from her, she told them they had the wrong place. When. the gang harassed lily by the phone, she changed her number repeatedly. After multiple death ' ‘According to UNHCR’s egal assssinent of potential sk profiles for Honduran asylum seekers in need of international protection under Arcle 1A of the 1951 Convention, “it would frequently be appropriate for... Applicants who fice gang-elsted forms of persecution to be analyzed in relation to the _r0up of (imputed) politcal opinion...Tab Z, °g. 234). Indeed, UNHCR notes, In Honduras, expressing ‘objections tothe activities of gangs may be considered as amounting to an opinion that is critical ofthe methods and policies of those in control and, thus. const thin the meaning ofthe refugee definition. (1d!) For example. individuals who resist being recruited by a gang, or who refuse to comply with demands made by the gangs. such as demands to pay extortion money, may be perceived to hold a political opinion 1d.) threats she temporarily succumb to their demands, but eventually stopped paying them. ‘aa refusal to pay after multiple death threats from the gang marked her as antithetical with the gang's desire to enforce total compliance and authority with their “t /\" and a political enemy to be eliminated. Thus, leading the gang to attempt to murder her but killing her sister-in-law instead, While the origin iment of the gang at first was motivated by a non-persecutory desire to gain wealth, the gangs desire shifted to something at odds with financial gain i.e. punishment by death due to her imputed political opposition of the gangs control of the land. iii, Mis Eligible for Asylum due to a Well-Founded Fear of Persecution on ome of her membership in the particular social group “family members @4MM can also establish an independent claim for asylum based upon a well- founded fear of persecution on account of her being a member of the particular social group “Family members of Sa SmAnnOUrmang 1. Fear of Future Persecution Under the definition of refugee at INA § 101(a)(42) an applicant can establish eligibility as a refugee even if he or she had not actually suffered persecution in the past. Rather, an applicant can establish eligibility based on a “well-founded” fear of future persecution, To establish reasonable fear, the BIA elucidates a four-part test: 1) whether the applicant is in possession of a protected characteristic, 2) whether the persecutor is aware that the applicant possesses the characteristic, 3) whether the persecutor has the capability of punishing the applicant and 4) whether the persecutor has the inclination to punish the applicant. See; Matter of Mogharrabi, 19 I. & N. Dec. 439 (BIA 1987). eam can establish the four prongs of the modified Mogharrabi test. Through credible testimony and evidence submitted, Kessy has established that she is the 29 granddaughter of Casta Ines Murrillo Hernandez and that she had lived with her grandmother during the majority of her childhood. As set forth in (@amlMbaffidavit, her great uncle HaMNWEROUNIND Sr. and his family (perpetrators) where aware ofeidamans relationship to her grandmother. (Tab A, Pgs. 1-14). The applicant's feared persecutors, members of the 4atastdamitiaate family, have the intention and capability of harming ‘ammp as indicated by the past harm they have inflicted on her other family members including the murder of two of her uncles. Furthermore, by vowing to killediastasiamp (SSENNONNENNENOMBand all of her family, the persecutors have established an inclination to targetsiiamgg Last, @immmyés own credible testimony and country conditions evidence that police are ineffective and corrupt in Honduras and would not protect her. Specifically, country conditions for Honduras show. Among the most serious human rights problems were corruption, intimidation, and institutional weakness of the justice system leading to spread impunity. Corruption and impunity continue to be serious problems within the security forces. (Tab TT. Pe. 341). The government lacks resources to investigate and prosecute cases, and police often lack vehiclesffuel 10 respond to calls for assistance. This ‘means police may take hours to arrive at the scene of a violent crime or ‘may not respond at all. As a result, criminals operate with a high degree of impunity, (Tab AA, Pe. 245). This same report also found that “[t]he ‘majority of serious crimes...are never solved. “Family members feGemmimnbiemnidiesiommamis” is a cognizable social group. In applying the three-part BIA test, the applicant is the blood relative of diaaidmdaiaty ERSFONNNER This is an immutable characteristic that she cannot change. Second, it is possible to determine who falls within the group defined as “family members of Game EiNS Forily membership is clearly definable. It requires 30 either @ blood or marriage relationship. Families are also limited in size and form the nucleus of other social organizations and are guarded by social taboos and legal recognition. Third, “family members f UY.” is socially distinct from the Honduran population at large. In virtually every society, a family consisting of spouses, children, parents. grandparents. cousins, aunts and uncles is viewed by society as socially distinct. ‘Thus, courts have determined that family membership is a cognizable social group when the family relationship is at leait one central reason for the claimed harm. See; Ayele v, Holder, 564 F.3d 862, 869 (7th Cir. 2009); Matter of L-E-A-, 27 1&N Dec. 40 (BIA 2017). Moreover, datananbiat ORO: family motive to target@Mllpcan be ascertained by the evidence submitted. In the past ¢ummaphstumatiingigg s family has attacked similarly situated family members f (Ane The perpetrators also made it known throughout town that they would not stop until they killed QUA Hemandez and her entire family. Thus, a nexus fos family’s motive can be readily established. Moreover, Los Chirizos motive is not that of financial reasoning but is rather to harm the Applicant because of her relationship to her ‘grandmother. Thus, making this case factually distinct from Matter of L-E-A, 27 1&N Dec. 40 (BIA 2017). iv, Alternatively, Kessy is entitled to Humanitarian Asylum Should this Court find that the DHS has met its burden of rebutting the presumption of a well-founded fear of persecution, or reasonable location alternatives, Kessy asserts that she is eligible for humanitarian asylum. A grant of humanitarian 31 asylum is appropriate if the respondent can demonstrate compelling reasons for being ‘unwilling or unable to return to her horse country, and these circumstances arise out of the severity of the past persecution. See 8 C.F.R. §1208.13(b)(1)(ii)(A); Matter of Chen, 20 I&N Dec. 16 (BIA 1989). (@gmmm suffered prolonged and constant harassment and death threats from Los Chirizos. The Chirizos have shown their wiliness to commit violence by burning to death a nearby business owner and his family as well as attempting to assassinate M0Nmp but killing her sister-in-law instead. As a result of this constant risk of torture and death, Bp continues to suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder. (Tab V, Pg, 101). As such, gp has suffered atrocious harm and she qualifies for a grant of humanitarian asylum. v. Derivative Respondent Kenneth A. Canales-Gradis is eligible or asylum due to a Well-Founded Fear of Persecution on Account of her membership in the particular social group “Family Members of Kessy Gradis-Zoto” (BB son Kenneth can also establish an independent claim for asylum based upon a well-founded fear of future persecution on account of his being a member of the particular social group “Family member, f ao? 1. Fear of Future Persecution based upon protected ground déwranty can establish the four prongs of the modified Mogharrabi test. Evidence shows that(@Gmanaiy is the son oftilliygand that Los Chirizos is aware of this. Evidence also shows that Los Chirizos has the ability and willingness to attacleamaaml@. As set forth in SHMN’s affidavit, Los Chirizos has on multiple occasions threatened SINR that they will burn @smmmmgh alive with her. (Tab A, Pg. 8). Country conditions support that Honduras is a lawless land with high murder rates that are often unsolved. (Tab AA &, ‘Pg. 244, 246). Country conditions also support that murder for hire is not uncommon. (Id. 32 ‘at 245). Last, the evidence shows that one central motive of Los Chitizos is targeting (GBB due to his family relationship cm vi, Respondent Sshould Not Be Statutorily Barred From Asylum and Merits Favorable Exercise of Discretion Although imp filed her application after one year of her last entry, she was never informed of the one-year deadline from the Department of Homeland Security and is therefore a class member under Mendez Rojas v. Johnson, 2018 WL 1532715 (W.D. Wash. March 29 2018). Therefore, this Court should accept (Img§I@ I-589 as timely filed. In Mendez, the court found that the government's failure to provide adequate notice of the one-year deadline for asylum applicants constitutes a violation of the immigration statute, the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), and class members’ due process rights under the Fifth Amendment. Under the Judge's order DHS has until July 27, 2018, 10 adopt, publicize, and immediately implement uniform procedural ‘mechanisms that will ensure class members are able to file their asylum applications in a timely manner. Moreover, per the Courts order, the government must accept timely filed an asylum application that is filed by a class member within one year of the government's adoption of the new notice of their one-year deadline, including those applications by class members filed before the court's order but after more than a year after their arrival in the United States. A favorable exercise of discretion is also warranted in this case. In determining whether an application merits a favorable exercise of discretion, an Immigration Judge % Kessy isa Class A.II. class member under Mendez Rojas, Class A.II. member are all individuals who are in removal proceedings and who either (a) have not yet applied for asylum or (b) applied for asylum after fone year of ther last arrival. 33 must consider the totality of the circumstances, balancing the fact the applicant qualifies as a refugee, along with other factors against any negative factors. See; Matter of Pula, 19 I&N Dec. 467 (BIA 1987). Here, the positive factors clearly outweigh that of the negative and discretion is warranted. B, @WwMis Eligible for Withholding of Removal Due to a Clear Probability of Persecution in Honduras. Withholding is mandatory when an alien’s life or freedom would be threatened in the country of removal on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group. INA §241(b)(3). As with asylum, discussed supra in Part A, Gil is entitled to the presumption that she is eligible for withholding of removal because she suffered past persecution on account of her membership in the particular social group “Honduran business owners who have refused to pay war tax” “Hondurans taking concrete steps to oppose Los Chirizos gang members and gang authority” or in the altemative “Family members of Casta Ines Murrillo Hernandez” which the govemment cannot rebut by a preponderance of the evidence. 8 CFR. § 1208.16(b)(1)(). The testimony of Gimp along with the extensive and credible country conditions evidence, meets the higher threshold for the likelihood of future harm that will befallgiimmgy if returned. Moreover Mllgpis not disqualified from a grant of withholding of removal under any statutory ground. Accordingly, Kessy is entitled to withholding of removal, In addition, her son (QM can also establish an independent claim for withholding based on a well-founded fear of future persecution on account of his membership in the particular social group “Family members of (a_i The 34 record reflects that (QE will most likely be killed if returned to Honduras by Los Chirizos. C. Respondents are entitled to relief under the Convention Against Torture ‘Under the Convention Against Torture, applicants like ®@lliy and @iNli@e are entitled to CAT relief if they show that they are more likely than not to be tortured upon removal. 8 CER § 1208.16(c)(2), (4). If the agent inflicting the torture is a private, actor, the applicant must prove govemment consent or acquiescence to torture. 8 CFR. § 1208.18(aX(1). First, the harm (map and@igmmmp fear if returned to Honduras, death or grave bodily injury, meets the definition of torture.” The mental suffering component of the CER. definition of torture also includes the threat of imminent death or the threat that another person will imminently be subject to death. See; 8 CFR § 208.18(a)(4). In addition, the record shows that Los Chirizos motive to inflict said torture is to punish MW for her perceived defiance of the gang which also falls within the definition of torture. Id. Finally, like other members of society who have challenged gangs de facto authority, Los Chirizos targeting qilmmg for torture operates with the consent or acquiescence of the Honduran government. (See 8 C.F.R. § 208.18(a)(1) and (6)). Corruption is a serious and pervasive problem in Honduras and it enables gangs to act with complete impunity. 260-261). In addition, country condition evidence impunity. 7 Torture” i defined as any act by which severe pain or suffering, whether physical or mental, is itertionally inficed on a person of a third person forthe purpose of (1) obtaining information or a confession, (2) punishing him for an act committed or suspected of having been commited by him or a third. person (3) intimidating or coercing him or a third person, or (4) for any reason based on Aliscrimination of any kind, 8 CER. § 208.18(1) 35 shows the type of violence §§§um has and will experience is often directed by or with the direct acknowledgment of government officials. Excerpts from a few of the multiple scholarly reports included as evidence on this issue provide: © As one leader of a major bus company in Tegucigalpa --as related to extortion-- Buus it: “itis clear to [him] that police only go after independent groups, avoiding capture and prosecution of the big three: MS13, Barrio 18 and Chirizos. [He] theorize(s] that the police commanders and these officials take their cut of the extortion pie. CLab BB, Pg. 249) + In Honduras gang memiers refer to police offices as “uniformed gang members.” 77% of former gang members indicate that they paid bribes to the police. Also, multiple reports accuse the police of extortion of the gangs. In this manner the police encourage gang members to extort more businesses and individuals. (Tab RRPg. 33). © “The Honduran police cannot be considered a reliable institution to which citizens who are threatened or who have become victims of violence and crime ‘could turn to. Rather, many parts of the police must be considered criminal organizations themselves.” (Tab VV, Pg. 253) ‘© “Many Hondurans fear to seek protection of the police, because they - in many ‘cases rightly - believe that the police are colluding with the criminal organizations or other individual aggressors who are threatening them.” (Id). ‘© “[cJorruption and impunity continued to be serious problems within the security forces. Some members of the police participated in crimes with local and international criminal organizations.” (Tab WW, Pe 253) ‘* [EJsxtortion rackets are conducted in coordination with government officials or the Police” (Tab CC, Pg. 255) Accordingly, the respondents ——iisionp ond Czy (@@BW merit protection under the Convention Against Torture. Iv. CONCLUSION Respondents are eligible for and should be granted their applications for asylum, withholding of removal, and relief under the Convention Against Torture. As established herein, the Respondents Adama dsiimammp have demonstrated a well-founded fear of 36 persecution on account of their membership in a particular social group or on account of their imputed political opinion. WHEREFORE, the Respondents, through Counsel, respectfully requests that the Court exercise its discretion and grant their applications for asylum. In the alternative, they are entitled to withholding of removal or Convention Against Torture protection, and for any other relief this Court deems just and necessary. Respectfully submitted this _ day of May, 2018. Jeffrey Middlesworth Esq. (EOIR # $3657890) ‘Attorney for Respondents Zuma Law LLC. PO Box 7841 Gumee, IL 60031 Tel: 847-596-3030 7 a_i oveceunaeanas Dn eepapremmmeeed ey Immigration Court Chicago, Ilinois Certificate of Servi 1___do hereby certify that I mailed or hand-delivered a true and correct copy of the attached Respondent's Brief in Support of Applications for Asylum, Withholding of Removal and the Convention Against Torture to: Please check one: Department of Homeland Security Office of the Chief Counsel 525 W. Van Buren, Suite 701 Chicago, IL 60607 U.S. Department of Justice Immigration Court 525 W. Van Buren, Suite 500 Chicago, IL 60607 Please check one: _—— The document(s) were mailed on (date) ____ The document(s) were hand-delivered on (date) (date) 38 "
}