UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
EXECUTIVE OFFICE FOR IMMIGRATION REVIEW
United States Immigration Court
1901 South Bell Street, Suite 200

 

Arlington, VA 22202
IN THE MATTERS OF: ) IN REMOVAL PROCEEDINGS
)
) File No.: A
Lead Respondent; and )
) File No.: A
Minor Respondent. )
_ )
CHARGE: Section 212(a)(7)(A)(DC) of the Immigration and Nationality Act

(“INA” or “Act”), as amended, as an immigrant who, at the time of
application for admission, is not in possession of a valid unexpired
immigrant visa, reentry permit, border crossing card, or other valid
entry document required by the Act.

APPLICATIONS: Asylum, pursuant to INA § 208; withholding of removal, pursuant
to INA § 241(b)(3), and protection under the United Nations
Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman, or
Degrading Treatment or Punishment (“Convention Against
Torture” or “CAT’”), pursuant to 8 C.F.R. §§ 1208.16-.18 (2017).

APPEARANCES
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS: ON BEHALF OF THE DHS:
Philip G. Schrag, Esq. Carol Jun, Esq.
Center for Applied Legal Studies Assistant Chief Counsel
Georgetown Law U.S. Department of Homeland Security
600 New Jersey Avenue, NW, Suite 332 1901 South Bell Street, Suite 900
Washington, DC 20001 Arlington, VA 22202

DECISION AND ORDERS OF THE IMMIGRATION JUDGE
I. PROCEDURAL HISTORY

The adult Respondent (“the Lead Respondent”), and her minor son,

or “the Rider Respondent”) (collectively, “the Respondents”)

are natives and citizens of El Salvador. They entered the United States at or near Hidalgo, Texas
on 2016. Exh. 1. On 2016, the Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”)
served the Respondents with Notices to Appear (“NTA”), charging them as inadmissible pursuant
In the Matters o ond
TS 2:

to INA § 212(a)(7)(A)() 1). See id. DHS commenced proceedings by filing the NTAs with the
Arlington Immigration Court on May 9, 2016, Id.

During a master calendar hearing on f 2016, the Respondents, through counsel,
admitted the factual allegations contained in their NTAs and conceded inadmissibility as charged.
Inadmissibility was therefore established by clear and convincing evidence. See 8 C.F.R.
§§ 1240.8, 1240.10(c). Also on July 11, 2016, the Lead Respondent timely filed an Application
for Asylum and Withholding of Removal (“Form 1-589”), seeking asylum and withholding of
removal under the Act and protection under the Convention Against Torture. Exh. 2; see INA
§ 208(a)(2)(B); 8 C.F.R. § 1208.4(a)(2). J is included in the asylum application as a
derivative beneficiary. Id.

The Lead Respondent testified in support of her applications on aa 2017. For the
following reasons, her asylum application will be GRANTED.

Il. SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
A. Documentary Evidence

The Record of Proceedings contains the following documents relevant to the Respondents’
applications: the Lead Respondent’s NTA (Exhibit 1); the Lead Respondent’s Form 1-589 (Exhibit
2); Notice of Hearing in Removal Proceedings, issued July 11, 2016 (Exhibit 3); the Respondents’
witness list and supporting documents, Tabs A-MM (Exhibits 4-6); and the March 8, 2017
Congressional Research Service report on El Salvador (Exhibit 7). All of these documents have
been admitted into evidence and considered.

B. Testimonial Evidence

The Lead Respondent’s testimony and written declaration have been considered in their
entirety and are summarized below to the extent relevant to the subsequent analysis.

The Lead Respondent was born on 1984, in the department of Usulutan, El
Salvador. She spent her entire life in the municipality of . Her father died when she was
six years old, and as a result she was primarily raised by her mother, who instilled in her a belief
in women’s rights and gender equality. The Lead Respondent strongly believes that women and
men should be treated equally and that women deserve respect, which she testified is not a very
common belief in El Salvador.

Prior to coming to the United States, the Lead Respondent lived in the neighborhood of
Ls with her partner, aa, and their three children. She worked as a
community promoter/social worker in different communities in Usulutan. In this role, she
conducted home visits in various neighborhoods in and around MM. She used these visits to
speak with her clients about, among other things, gender equality and the importance of healthy
eating and hygiene habits. Thus, her work as a community promoter reinforced her belief in
women’s rights. She often had to take long bus rides and/or walk a long way to reach her clients’

tt
In the Matters of an
APS a0

homes. She was required to wear a shirt and vest emblazoned with her organization’s logo
whenever she was working, including on her commute.

One day in early 2015, the Lead Respondent was walking from work to her mother’s house
in downtown To get there, she had to walk along the town’s main street, a dangerous
thoroughfare where MS-13 gang members routinely congregated. One of these men, a gang
member she knew as fe yelled a crude sexual advance at her.'! She ignored him
and walked away. She was wearing her work shirt and vest at the time.

Although the incident upset and offended her, the Lead Respondent believed this was a
one-time encounter. However, [MG continued to harass her every time she walked
down the street. She never responded to him, refusing even to look at him, in the hopes that he
would move on. He did not do so. Rather, as she continued to disregard him, his behavior became
more aggressive and menacing. He began following her down the street, often so closely that she
could see him in her peripheral vision. His verbal statements also grew more threatening the longer
she denied his advances. He began to tell her that he was going to make her “his woman” by force,
whether she liked it or not. The Lead Respondent understood these statements to be implicit threats
to rape her and force her to be his “girlfriend.” She knew from stories she had heard in the
community that being the “girlfriend” of a gang member meant being obligated to submit sexually
not only to that person, but to other members of his gang as well.

continued to follow and threaten to rape the Lead Respondent innumerable
times over the course of the succeeding year, including when her partner was with her. As his
threats continued and increased, she became more and more fearful that her defiance would result
in him raping or killing her. Nevertheless, she did not report him to the police, because she knew
from news reports that the local police cooperated with the MS-13 gang. She also had heard of
people who were killed after reporting gang members.

In January 2016, Po moved into an abandoned house three doors away from
the Lead Respondent’s home in . He walked past her home multiple
times per day, and he often made threatening comments to her when he saw her. When this
happened, she went inside and prayed he would not try to break into her home. She was under
immense stress due to the ongoing threats, and her health began to suffer; she developed recurrent
eye infections, neck and back pain, nightmares, and a rash. She was afraid to leave the house.

 

Afier a year of repeated threats, and approximately one month afterfiill moved
into her neighborhood, the Lead Respondent decided that she had no choice but to flee. She did
not believe that she could have relocated to another part of El Salvador, because she knew that the
gang had nationwide contacts, and she was certain that [AE would have been able to
find her anywhere in the country.

'The Lead Respondent knew that i was an MS-13 member because of the way he
dressed, the fact that he spent time with gang members and engaged in gang “lookout” activities,
and by his reputation in
a
EE onc

The Lead Respondent and her son, I, left El Salvador on February 15, 2016.
and their other two children remained in El Salvador. Due to ongoing safety concerns in

, the children moved to the Lead Respondent’s mother’s house. The Lead
Respondent believed that if she were to return to El Salvador, a will rape and kill
her for defying him by escaping to the United States.

Il. LAW, ANALYSIS, & FINDINGS
A. Credibility and Corroboration

The REAL ID Act of 2005 applies to this case because the lead Respondent’s asylum
application was filed on or after May 11, 2005. See Matter of S-B-, 24 I&N Dec. 42 (BIA 2006);
INA § 240(c)(4)(A). A credibility determination may be based on the applicant’s demeanor,
candor, or responsiveness; the inherent plausibility of her account; the consistency between her
written and oral statements; the internal consistency of each such statement; the consistency of
each statement with other evidence of record; any inaccuracies or falsehoods in such statements;
or any other factor, without regard to whether an inconsistency, inaccuracy, or falsehood goes to
the heart of the applicant’s claim. INA § 208(b)(1)(B)(iii).

Considering the totality of the circumstances, | find that the Lead Respondent testified
credibly. She provided candid, straightforward, and responsive testimony concerning the events
leading to her departure from El Salvador, and her testimony was consistent with her written
statement and record evidence. See generally Exhs. 4-7. Moreover, her demeanor was calm and
appropriate given the circumstances and did not indicate any attempt to mislead or to embellish
her claim. Therefore, I will credit her testimony in its entirety.

B. Asylum

An asylum applicant has the burden of demonstrating that she is a refugee within the
meaning of section 101(a)(42)(A) of the Act. INS v. Cardoza-Fonseca, 480 U.S. 421, 423 (1987);
8 C.F.R. § 1208.13(a). A refugee is a person who is unwilling or unable to return to her country of
origin, and is unable or unwilling to avail herself of the protection of her government, due to past
persecution or a well-founded fear of future persecution on account of her race, religion,
nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion. INA § 101(a)(42)(A).
In addition to establishing eligibility for asylum, the applicant must demonstrate that a grant of
asylum is warranted in the exercise of discretion. INA § 208(b)(1)(A); 8 C.F.R. § 1208.14(a).

i, Past persecution

An application claiming past persecution must show that she suffered (1) severe harm
amount to persecution, (2) that was inflicted on account of a protected ground, (3) by the
government or an agent the government ts unwilling or unable to control. INA § 208(b)(1)(B)(i);
Hernandez-Avalos v. Lynch, 784 F.3d 944, 949 (4th Cir. 2015); Liv. Gonzales, 405 F.3d 171,
176-77 (4th Cir. 2005); Crespin-Valladares v. Holder, 632 F.3d 117, 128 (4th Cir. 2011); Matter
of Acosta, 19 1&N Dec. 211, 222 (BIA 1985). As discussed below, the Lead Respondent has
demonstrated past persecution on account of her imputed political opinion.
In the Matters o

nd
and

1. Harm rising to the level of persecution

 

“Persecution” entails harm or suffering inflicted upon an individual to punish her for
possessing a belief or characteristic the persecutor seeks to overcome. See Matter of Acosta, 19
I&N Dec, at 222-23. Persecution is “an extreme concept that does not include every sort of
treatment our society regards as offensive.” Li, 405 F.3d at 177. Rather, it requires actions above
“mere harassment” and includes the “threat of death, torture, or injury to one’s person or freedom.”
Id.; see also Hernandez-Avalos, 784 F.3d at 949. Threats alone may constitute persecution, but
only when they are so menacing as to cause significant actual suffering or harm. See Matter of ZZ-O-, 26 IKN Dec. 586, 589 (BIA 2015) (quoting Lim v. INS, 224 F.3d 929, 936 (9th Cir. 2000)).

 

I find that the lead Respondent experienced severe harm that could amount to past
persecution if she could show that the government of El Salvador was not able to protect her at
that time. For over a year, the Lead Respondent was stalked and threatened with rape by a man
she knew to be a member of one of the world’s most violent criminal organizations. See. e.g.,
Exh, 4; Exh. 5, Tab T; Exh. 7 at 6. The year-long, continual, escalating threats she experienced
went beyond mere harassment. See Matter of Z-Z-O-, 26 I&N Dec. at 589.
followed her down the street so closely that she could see his shadow overlapping hers; she was
afraid to look directly at him, believing that he would attack her if she did so. He threatened to
make her his “girlfriend” by force, which in the context of the society in question was commonly
known to be a threat to rape her, force her into conditions tantamount to sexual slavery, and/or
murder her. See, e.g., Exh. 4, Tab D {13 (“[W]hen a gang member demands that a woman become
his ‘girlfriend,’ the demand connotes a significant threat to the life of the woman and her family.”),
Tab E; Exh. 5, Tabs Q, S at 344 (“Failure to comply [with a demand to become a gang member’s
sexual partner] is reportedly met with severe reprisals, including homicides . . . or the threat of
such violence.”), T-U; Exh. 6, Tabs X, CC, EE, II-JJ, LL. When he eventually moved into her
neighborhood, a mere three houses away from her own, his threats took on a more menacing tone
and represented a significant risk of imminent danger. She was afraid to leave her house, and she
developed numerous health problems due to the overwhelming stress and anxiety she experienced.
Although the she was never physically injured, the totality of the harm she suffered due to Hi

’s imminent and menacing threats caused the Lead Respondent to experience
significant actual suffering. See Matter of Z-Z-O-, 26 I&N Dec. at 589.

2. Source or agent of persecution

An applicant for asylum based on past persecution must show she was persecuted by the
government or by an agent the government is unwilling or unable to control. See Orellana v. Barr,
925 F.3d 145, 151 (4th Cir. 2019); Hernandez-Avalos, 784 F.3d at 950-54; Matter of S-A-, 22 IAN
Dec. 1328, 1335 (BIA 2000). “Whether a government is unable or unwilling to control private
actors ... is a factual question that must be resolved based on the record in each case.” HernandezAvalos, 784 F.3d at 951 (internal quotations omitted) (citing Crespin-Valladares, 632 F.3d at 128).

 

In the present case, the Lead Respondent established that the government of El Salvador
was unwilling or unable to protect her from persecution. Although she never sought protection
from police or other authorities in El Salvador, under Fourth Circuit law she was not required to
seek government assistance when doing so (1) would have been futile or (2) would have subjected
Inthe Matters as as.
AMEE anc

her to further harm. Orellana, 925 F.3d at 153 (internal quotations and citations omitted). Count
conditions in E] Salvador in 2016 evidence shows that had the Lead Respondent reported

to the police, she likely would not have received the protection that she needed and she
likely would have faced an increased risk of harm. First, although there were programs and laws
in place that sought to combat gang violence and violence against women, such laws and programs
were ineffectively enforced or poorly implemented. Exh. 4, Tab D 4 21-23 (citing Bureau of
Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, U.S. Department of State, Country Reports on Human
Rights Practices for El Salvador — 2016); Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, U.S.
Department of State, Country Reports on Human Rights Practices for El Salvador — 2018 (2018
Human Rights Report) at 1, 10, 16 (noting widespread government corruption and significant
violent crime at the hands of organized criminal elements and stating that efforts by authorities to
remedy situations where gangs targeted individuals were “generally ineffective’). “[A]ccess to a
nominal or ineffectual remedy does not constitute meaningful recourse, for the foreign government
must be both willing and able to offer an applicant protection.” Orellana, 925 F.3d at 152 (internal
quotations omitted). Based on the totality of country conditions in El Salvador as of 2016, } find
that it would have been futile for the Lead Respondent to seek protection from the government.

 

Second, even had the Lead Respondent reported I to the police, the
widespread corruption and infiltration of police by the gangs in 2016 might have put her at greater
risk of harm. “[A] woman choosing to report sexual advances or violence perpetrated by a gang
member to the police is equivalent to signing her own death warrant, because police communicate
with the gangs and the consequence for the woman is typically homicide.” Exh. 4, Tab D J 22; see
also Exh, 5, Tab T at 364 (“Those who have refused to help a gang or reported a crime a particularly
vulnerable {to murder]”). Therefore, the evidence shows that the government of El Salvador was
unable to protect the Lead Respondent from the harm that she suffered.

li. Nexus to a protected ground

The Lead Respondent asserts that the harm she suffered in El Sa!vador was on account of
her political opinion and/or her membership in a particular social group. For the reasons discussed
below, I find that she demonstrated a nexus between the harm she suffered and her actual or
imputed political opinion. As such, | need not address the additional protected grounds she raised.

To succeed on a claim of persecution on account of political opinion, an applicant must
prove that: (1) she actually holds a political opinion or that a political opinion is imputed to her,
and (2) she was targeted on account of that opinion. See Abdel-Rahman v. Gonzales, 493 F.3d
444, 450-51 (4th Cir. 2007). When evaluating whether an applicant was persecuted on account of
an imputed opinion, “the relevant inquiry is not the political views sincerely held or expressed by
the victim, but rather the persecutor’s subjective perception of the victim’s views.” Alvarez Lagos
v. Barr, 927 F.3d 236, 254 (4th Cir. 2019). To establish that the harm was committed “on account
of” a protected ground, an applicant must demonstrate that a protected ground was “at least one
central reason” she was harmed. INA § 208(b)(1)(B){i); Quinteros-Mendoza v. Holder, 556 F.3d
159 (4th Cir. 2009). The protected ground need not be the on/y reason for the persecution; however,
it must be more than “incidental, tangential, superficial, or subordinate to another reason for the
harm.” Quinteros-Mendoza, 556 F.3d at 164 (internal quotations and citation omitted). The
persecutor’s motivation is an issue of fact. Matter of S-P-, 21 I&N Dec. 486, 490 (BIA 1996), The
In the Matters as ::: PS C‘(S
ARE and

adjudicator must consider not only the “articulated purpose” of a persecutor’s threats, but also the
“intertwined reasons” for those threats. Cantillano Cruz v. Sessions, 853 F.3d 122, 129 (4th Cir.
2017); Oliva v. Lynch, 807 F.3d 53, 59-60 (4th Cir. 2015).

Here, the Lead Respondent’s belief in women’s rights and equality constitutes a political
opinion. See, e.g., Fatin v. INS, 12 F.3d 1233, 1242-43 (3d Cir. 1993) (“[W]e have little doubt that
feminism qualifies as a political opinion within the meaning of the [Act]”); Respondents’ PreHearing Brief at 29 n.178 (citing United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, Asylum
Officer Basic Training Course: Female Asylum Applicants and Gender-Related Claims, 27-28
(Mar. 12, 2009) (“Feminism is a political opinion”)); Oxford English Dictionary (3d ed. 2012)
(“feminist, adj.”: “Of, relating to, or advocating the rights and equality of women”). Although she
never explicitly expressed her views to or in the presence of EM it is clear from the
record that her actions were interpreted as an expression of a subversive belief regarding the role
of women in gang-held territories in El Salvador. See Alvarez Lagos, 927 F.3d at 254. Given the
totality of the circumstances presented here, I find that these ascribed beliefs constituted a political
opinion that imputed to the lead.

The record evidence establishes that Salvadoran gang members expect complete
submission from women who reside in their territories. At the time the Respondents departed form
E] Salvador, that country had the highest concentration of gang members per capita in Central
America. Exh. 7 at 6. Gangs exercise full territorial control in many neighborhoods throughout the
country, including the area where the Lead Respondent lived. See Exh. 4, Tab D 4] 7; Exh. 5, Tab
V at 429. Specifically, “[g]angs consider women who reside in their sector to be a part of their
territory and property, giving the gang the right to sexually exploit these women.” Exh. 4, Tab D
4 11. “When a woman refuses to comply with gang demands, the gang member will . . . seek to
make clear that his authority and patriarchal power will not be challenged by a woman.” Exh. 4,
Tab E { 15. “Gangs target such women. .. to make clear that their authority and patriarchal power
are not defied by those they perceive to be inferior to them.” Id. 7 16 (“A woman who refuses to
comply with gang demands is especially endangered, as gangs have no respect for women and
expect complete submission from them.”).

These country conditions support the conclusion that when the Lead Respondent refused
to submit to Es threats, he interpreted this defiance as a challenge to his and the
gang’s authority, which in the context of El Salvador constitutes an imputed political opinion. See
Exh. 5, Tab V at 429-30 (“The ground of political opinion needs to reflect the reality of the specific
geographical, historical, political, legal, judicial, and sociocultural context of the country of
origin.”); Alvarez Lagos, 927 F.3d at 255 (finding that refusal to comply with a gang’s demands
might warrant a grant of asylum based on imputed political opinion, and remanding for the agency
to address this issue). In addition to her actions defying his authority, the Lead Respondent was a
community promoter who openly advocated ideas of gender equality among her clients throughout
the gang’s territory. ET was fully aware of this work, having seen her wearing her
uniform around town, and this knowledge likely contributed his imputation of a political opinion.
Accordingly, the Lead Respondent demonstrated both that she actually holds a political opinion
and that a political opinion was imputed to her by her persecutor.
In the Mates rT
ARTE anc

Moreover, the preponderance of the evidence establishes that the Lead Respondent was
persecuted on account of imputed political opinion. I note, first, that there is insufficient evidence
that iE initially targeted her on account of any political opinion. However, while I
GE s original catcalls merely constituted harassment, his actions toward her became
more threatening as she repeatedly ignored his advances. When the Lead Respondent refused to
succumb to his threats or to even acknowledge his attempts to assert power over her, his behavior
became more menacing, and his threats grew increasingly violent, ultimately rising to the level of
persecution, as discussed above. Thus, regardless of his motivation for initiating contact with her,
the reasons for his persecutory threats and menacing behavior quickly became intertwined with a
desire to punish her for the imputed political opinion discussed above. See Cantillano Cruz, 853
F.3d at 129. In other words, the harm amounting to persecution was inflicted not because
GE was interested in pursuing a romantic or sexual relationship with the Lead Respondent, but
rather to overcome political beliefs regarding women’s rights in the gang’s territory that he
imputed to her. As such, the persecution the Lead Respondent experienced in El Salvador was
carried out in retaliation for her resistance to ’s and the gang’s authority, and that
this persecution was inextricably linked to her imputed political opinion. See Oliva, 807 F.3d at
59-60. Therefore, the Lead Respondent has established past persecution on account of political
opinion.

iii. Well-founded fear of future persecution on account of a protected ground

DHS can overcome the presumption that the Lead Respondent has a well-founded fear of
future persecution based on past harm by showing that: (1) there has been a fundamental change
in circumstances such that her fear of persecution is no longer well founded; or (2) she could avoid
future persecution by relocating to another part of the country, and that it would be reasonable to
expect her to do so under all the circumstances. See 8 C.F.R. § 1208.13(b)(1)(i). DHS did not
offer any evidence to rebut the regulatory presumption of future persecution that is triggered by
the finding of past persecution. While the government of El Salvador has made substantial strides
over the last two years to combat gang violence, the totality of the country conditions evidence
shows that there has not been a meaningful change in country conditions, or that the Lead
Respondent will be able to relocate to another part of the country to avoid ae : and
his gang’s menacing threats. See Exh. 4, Tab D ff 21-22 (noting that government strategies to
combat gang and gender-based violence are typically short-lived); Tab E 4S 28-30; Tabs Y, KK.
This conclusion is consistent with the Fourth Circuit’s reasoning in Alvarez-Lagos, which was
based on a consideration of both the applicant’s political opinion and the fact that she lived in a
violent, gang-controlled territory.

For the above-stated reasons, the Lead Respondent has demonstrated a presumed wellfounded fear of future persecution based on imputed political opinion. She is therefore statutorily
eligible for asylum.

iv. Discretion
An applicant must also demonstrate that, in the totality of the circumstances, she merits a

favorable exercise of discretion. See Matter of Pula, 19 I&N Dec. 467, 473 (BIA 1987). A wellfounded fear of persecution “should generally outweigh all but the most egregious adverse
 
 

Inthe Matters of i
‘on

factors.” Id. at 474; Zuh_ v. Mukasey, 547 F.3d 504, 507-14 (4th Cir. 2008) (noting that
discretionary denials are “exceedingly rare” and require egregious negative activity by the
applicant). The only negative factor in the Lead Respondent’s case is the unlawful manner in
which she attempted to come into the United States. However, this negative factor is greatly
outweighed by the demonstrated danger of future persecution that she would face if removed to El
Salvador. See Matter of Pula, 19 1&N Dec. at 473. Accordingly, I will grant her asylum application
in the exercise of discretion.

IV. CONCLUSION

The Lead Respondent has demonstrated past persecution and a presumed well-founded fear
of future persecution on account of imputed political opinion. Her application for asylum under
INA § 208(a) will be granted as a matter of discretion. ’s derivative application for asylum
is also granted. Because the Respondents’ asylum applications are granted, it is not necessary to
consider their applications for withholding of removal under the Act or for protection under the
CAT.

The following order is entered:

ORDER

The Lead Respondent’s application for asylum under INA § 208(a) is GRANTED.
The Minor Respondent’s derivative application for asylum under INA § 208(b)(3) is GRANTED.

Quynh V. Bain
Immigration Judge

 

Date: July 29, 2019

 

APPEAL RIGHTS: Both parties have the right to appeal the decision in this case. Any appeal is
due at the Board of Immigration Appeals on or before thirty (30) calendar days from the date of
service of this decision, or by August 28, 2019.
